
Pg 5.

Installation

The Perfect Sound plugs into the printer/parallel port on the back of your Amiga.  The two jacks on the back of the Perfect Sound are for connecting an audio source.  Looking at it with the plugs facing away from you (as it would be on the computer), the left jack is for the right channel, and vice versa.  You can record a mono sample from either one of the jacks.  You can also use a cable or switchbox to connect Perfect Sound to your Amiga.  This is by no means required, but if you wish to do this, keep in mind two points;

1.  The case ground on the Perfect Sound (the edge of the DB25 connector) must remain electrically connected to the Amiga connector.

2.  If you use a switch box, make sure all lines are passed bi-directionally.  It is recommended you try the switch box with your Perfect Sound before you buy it.



18A

Note:  on the Amiga 500 and the Amiga 2000, the output filter can be turned off using software.  While the Perfect Sound software cannot presently do this,  the public domain program "L.E.D." can.  Without the output filter,  the Amiga can re-produce much higher frequency sounds.  This is a double-edged sword, because aliasing problems are greatly enhanced, and higher sampling rates are needed to overcome them.



18B

This option will start by putting you in moniter mode.  However, as soon as you click the left mouse button, the screen will go blank and recording will begin.  Click the left mouse button again to stop recording (and bring back the screen).  Use the submenu to select which channels to digitize from.




2A


Important: Before using any of the programs on the disk you recieved, make a backup and use the copy, not the original.

PSound
The Perfect Sound Editor program.

Format_IFF
A text file with technical specifications for the IFF disk file format.

ps.title
A graphic file containing the Perfect Sound title screen.

read_me
A text file with detailed instructions about how to make an IFF instrument (the inst.txt file is a program used to show this file).

newtp2.2
A text file describing the changes that have been made to Version 2.2 of the Perfect Sound software.

source
A directory containing the source code in "C" for Perfect Sound (Version 2.0).

sounds
A directory that contains digitized sounds in the IFF format.



pg 20


Perfect Sound 1000 instructions

As you may have already noticed, your Perfect Sound 1000 comes with a short cable.  This cable is necessary because of the parallel port differences between the Amiga 1000 and the Amiga 500/2000.  To use your digitizer, plug one end of the cable into your printer port (the rightmost port when viewing your computer from the front).  Plug the other end into your Perfect Sound.  Your Perfect Sound should now operate as stated in the manual.  Switch boxes should still work (as long as the switch box passes all lines and grounds the connector; remember, test before buying).

 