.. City Desk Appendix: Glossary of Terms
.. Copyright 1987 by:
..   MicroSearch
..   9896 S.W. Freeway, Houston, TX  77074
..   (713) 288 9818
..
.. Written by:
..   SunRize Industries
..   P.O. Box 1453, College Station, TX 77841
..   (409) 846 1311
..
.eh=Glossary of Terms//Page #
.oh=Page #//Glossary of Terms

AppendixGlossary
(A)miga keys -- Command keys located on the left and right of the 
space bar.
ASCII -- American Standard Code for Information Interchange.
Attribute -- The appearance of the characters. Common attribute names are : boldface, italic, underlined, compressed.

Back_Gadget -- Puts the current window behind all other screens.
boldface -- darker that normal characters (also called overstriked characters.)
Baseline -- The lowest point of a letter of text. Baseline does not include descenders such as g, j and p.
Bit map -- Or bit-mapped graphics. is a graphics image which is formed by a tight matrix of dots with a specific number of dots per inch.

CLI -- Command Line Interpreter reads AmigaDOS commands and translates these commands into actions performed by the computer. See the A„m„i„g„a„D„O„S„ „U„s„e„r„'„s„ „M„a„n„u„a„l„ for a complete explanation.
clip art -- A collection of pictures ready to be "clipped" and placed on the page.
clipboard -- The window that holds all pages and objects. This is the background screen, behind the pages.
Close_Gadget-- Gadget in the upper left corner of a screen or window that selects that a window or screen be closed.
crop -- the act or trimming the edges of a graphic image.

desktop publishing -- The ability to merge typeset text and graphics and arranging them in any way easily and quickly using a personal computer.
directory -- A collection of files
dpi -- dots per inch
drag bar -- The portion of a window or screen title bar.
drawer -- A gadget that contains a drive or directory name.
drive -- The physical device unit in which a floppy disk is inserted.

embed -- Insertion of control words in a text file.

filename -- A name given to a file for identification
font -- The style of the characters. Also known as typestyle.
Front_Gadget -- Sends the current window to the front of all other screens.

gadget -- Any of the control devices provided in a window, screen 
or requester. A gadget is used to change what is being displayed or to communicate with an application.
graphic file -- A collection of data containing a graphic image.
gutter -- Horizontal space between two columns of text.

high resolution -- A display mode with 640 pixels displayed across a horizontal line.
H & J -- Short for Hyphenation and Justification.

icon -- A graphic representation of a tool, a command, or a file. 
Icons are displayed on the screen and eliminate the need to memorize multiple function commands.
IFF format -- Interchange File Format.
indentation -- moves text to the right or left of its current position.
interlaced -- vertical display in which 400 lines are displayed from the top to the bottom of the screen.
invert -- to reverse.
italic -- Slanted characters.

justification --causes lines to be padded with inter-word blanks to the right margin.

kerning -- Amount of space between certain combination of characters. A good visual example would be the word AW since they 
appear to have more room between them than the word IL. Kerning would close the gap.

layout -- the arrangement or characters and graphics on the page.
leading -- Vertical space between two lines. Distance is calculated from the  baseline of one line to the baseline of the next.
line length -- the horizontal size of the output line to be used in "formatted mode". Number of lines on the page.
low resolution -- Horizontal display of 320 pixels across a horizontal line. Low resolution is half the size of high resolution.

magnification -- Enlargement of characters in the vertical or horizontal direction. This is useful when characters in a font are not available in the desired size.
margin -- Specifies the number of spaces to be left between the left, right, top or bottom of the page.
mouse -- A control device used to move the pointer and make selections.

non-interlaced-- A mode that displays 200 lines form the top to the bottom of the screen. It is half the size of interlaced mode.

object -- A text or graphic item on a screen.
orphan -- the first line of a paragraph becomes separated due to a page break.

page length -- number of lines in a page.
pica -- A unit of measure with the value of 12 points which is equal to 1/6 of an inch or 6.25mm.
plain -- the normal appearance of characters.
point -- A point is the smallest unit of measure in typographic measurement. There are 12 points in a pica and 72 points in an inch.
PostScript -- Rapidly becoming the standard language of desktop publishing and laser printers, PostScript is a page description language developed by Adobe Systems and used by Apple's LaserWriter and other high-res printers.
Preferences -- A program that allows the user to change the various settings on an Amiga.

requester -- An information exchange region in a window.
resolution -- The number or dots per inch (dpi) used to create a character. High resolution graphics have a larger number of dots per inch resulting in a smoother picture. Laser printers typically produce 300 dpi whereas typographic machines produce 1200 dpi.
roman -- Text is positioned upright as opposed to text which is slanted (italics).

script --A style type that looks like handwriting or calligraphy. 
An example would be Zapf Chancery.
snap on -- A magnetic-like effect on characters or graphics which 
align them with each other and margin guides,  ruler guides or column guides. 
space stretch -- Amount that spaces can be stretched before the space between characters begins to stretch.
spacing -- Causes zero or more blank lines to be produced after each line in the text area.
subscripts -- A character or set of characters that are lowered on the baseline
superscripts -- A character or set of characters that are raised on the baseline.

text file -- a collection of related data.
toolbox -- A collection of icons.
trashcan -- An icon used for deleting graphics and text in mouse driven systems.
typeface -- or font, is the appearance of a set of characters. Examples of laser fonts are: Roman, Helvetica, Courier. Examples of Amiga fonts are : Diamond. Topaz, Sapphire.
typesetting -- The creation of text (or image) and then transferring that image to an electronic device.
typestyle -- A variation within a family of typeface. Examples: bold, underlined, etc. See Attribute.

underlined -- A line is drawn underneath each character.

widow --opposite of orphan. The last line of a paragraph becomes separated due to a page break.
window -- A screen display that accepts input from the user and displays output from the application.
workbench -- A program to manipulate AmigaDos disk file objects.
WYSIWYG -- "What You See Is What You Get". Used to indicate the software displays the graphics and text on the screen simultaneously. Often pronounced "wizzy wig".
