
The files you recieved with "Perfect Sound" should include the following:

PSound
PSound.info
ps.title
demo1
demo2
demo3
newto2.1
readme  (this file)

These files may be in two archives:

PSound.arc (PSound,PSound.info,readme,newto2.1)
PSdemo.arc (ps.title,demo1,demo2,demo3,readme)

Perfect Sound is Copyrighted 1986 by Anthony J. Wood.  Permission is
given to distribute copies of Perfect Sound for NON COMMERCIAL use
provided the following conditions are met:

1. All of the above listed files are included.
2. None of the files are altered in any way.

This program is being freely distributed so that you may try it. If you
like it and plan on keeping it, you must do one of two things:

1. Send $20 to SunRize Industries at the address below.  This will
   buy you the Perfect Sound software, source code, manual, and about
   fifteen digitized sounds.

2. Buy the Perfect Sound digitizer. This costs $89.95 and is available
   from us or your local dealer.

If decide you do not like this program, simply destroy all copies within
two weeks.



For Perfect Sound to load the title screen and the demos you will need to
create a subdirectory "sounds" with the makedir command. Put
demo1 - demo3 into this subdirectory.  These demos are digitized sounds
in IFF 8SVX format.

In the parent directory put "PSound", "PSound.info", and "ps.title".  Now,
when you execute Perfect Sound, the title screen and demos will load if
the "ps.title" can be found in the current directory.  If you get tired
of waiting for the demos to load, rename or delete them. Also, if the
title screen is renamed or deleted, Perfect Sound will not even attempt
to load the demo sounds.


The Perfect Sound editor can be used alone, to edit digitized sounds,
or can be used with the Perfect Sound Stereo Digitizer to record and
edit your own sounds.  The Perfect Sound digitizer costs $89.95, and is
available from:

SunRize Industries
PO Box 1453
College Station, TX 77841
(409) 846-1311    (NOTE: This phone number was given as 845-1311 before,
                   which is WRONG WRONG. If you see this old version
                   floating around, we would very much apreciate it
                   if you would change it. Thanks.  We are so embarassed...)

We take MasterCard/Visa or checks. For your money you get: a digitizer
that really does record in stereo (doesn't just imply it...), the
latest version of the "Perfect Sound" software, a typeset manual, and
a library of pre-recorded sounds (clapping, airplanes, yells,
gun shots, etc...)


We will be happy to take your payment by phone
if you have a credit card.

If you have any comments or suggestions, please contact us at 
the above address.


The following products are also available from SunRize Industries:


(These will be available in March 1987, ask your local dealer if he has it.)

Studio Magic        $69.95

Studio Magic is a digital sound studio. With Studio Magic, you can
edit digital sounds easily and quickly.  You can insert, delete, mix,
and overdub sounds.  Studio Magic provides over 10 digitial "Tools"
which allow you to create special effects such as echos, reverb,
comb filters, pitch change, and other unique effects.  Studio Magic
does FFT's to allow you to view the frequencey component of your sounds.
You can also load, modify, and create IFF instruments with Studio Magic.

Studio Magic also supports MIDI keyboards. You don't need a MIDI keyboard,
but if you have one, Studio Magic supports it.  Use the MIDI sequencer to
record and overdub.  Create your own instruments, or load IFF instruments
and play them with your keyboard.



Desktop Artist Vol I  $29.95

Black and white clip art.



City Desk           $149.95

Our new desktop publishing program. Available sometime in April. Beta (demo)
versions floating around now.


