
City Desk 2.0 Notes as of 10/10/88
( * = docs added since last version )

New requesters:
   Object options (toolbox)
     STAMPED      setting this cause the object to be "stamped" to the
                  background.  The only way to grab it is to change the
                  pointer mode.  (right mouse button on arrow tool)
     TRANSPARENT  Causes an object to be trasparent to text flow

   Size Options (right mouse button over resize tool)
   Pointer Options (right mouse button over arrow tool)
      Move Linked Object is not finished

   Flow Options   Right mouse button on reflow tool. (currently has
                  crop icon, but that will change.) This requester has
                  Auto Flow, Warnings, Use Default, Snap to Top, and
                  Auto Hyphenate.

   New Mag Value  The select new page magnification requester has been
                  changed to flow the style of the rest of City Desk's
                  requesters

   Print          The print requester now lets you select between two
                  dither types.  The dither type is used when printing
                  gray scale prictures and can be ordered or halftone.
                  These two types are identical to the two types of same
                  name available on the new 1.3 printer drivers.
                  You can also select proof mode. In proof mode,
                  graphics are not printed.  The "dither lighter"
                  switch causes only the lower 8 dither patterns to be
                  used.  This results in ligher, lower resolution image.
                  However, it looks better on some laser printers
                  because the normal dither patters appear too dark
                  on some printers. Postscript printers do their own
                  dithering. This allows higher resolution postscript
                  printers (such as a linotronic) to produce better
                  results than lower cost printers (such as a laserwriter.)


New Objects:

   Gray block     To get a gray square, select the solid box option
                  in the toolbox. This will change
                  to a toolbox option. You can use the object options
                  tool to change the level of gray.  Although only
                  three different gray scales are displayed, they will
                  print with the actule perecent you select in object
                  options.

Text Editor:

   There is a new full screen text editor that is selected from either
   ABC or EDIT. Currently all functions are working, although buggy.

Graphics Editor:

   There is a new graphics editor that edits in 16 gray scales.

Toolbox:

   Two new functions have been added to the tool box. There are
   Draw a solid block, edit text attributes.  All of the current
   functions will stay in the tool box; however, I will probably
   rearange and redraw the toolbox icons.

Sizing Lines
      Now when you use the size tool on a line (drawn with the line
      tool) either side of the line can be sized. Previously, always
      the left side would be anchord and the right side (or bottom
      for a vertical line) would move.  Now, the side you are nearest
      when you click on the line will be the side that moves.

EXPLODE
      The "BOX" tool has been removed.  You now box an object in the
      "OBJ" requester.  The explode tool now expands the current window
      to its maximum size. Use the right mouse button on the explode tool
      to un-explode a window.

Misc:

   I have altered many new requesters so they pop up centered on the
   mouse pointer, if possible.  They can't center if the pointer
   is too close to the window edge.

Save/Open

   Saveing and opening projects should now work correctly again.

Erase Page

   This menu option now correctly erases the clipboard as well as
   any other page

PostScript

   Support now added for all postscript fonts on the adobe AFM disks
   one and two.  This is basicly all fonts in a laserwriter plus.
   A new program, "gen_ps_font" has been added to allow users to
   generate and maintain their own ".ps" files.  Users can now create
   any size or attributes (bold italic bold-italic) they want in
   any of the basic "laser writer plus" fonts.  These are
   Times Roman, Helvetica, Courier, Avant Garde, Bookman, Helvetica
   Narrow, New Century Schoolbook, Palatino, Zaph Chancery, Symbol.
   Of course your PostScript printer must have these fonts built in
   to use them.

Notes:

   Dither:  When printing, grayscales are printed as dot patterns.
            City Desk uese a 4X4 dot matrix which gives 16 gray
            scales.  However, on many laserprinters at 300 dpi, the
            laser can not switch on-off fast enought to print rows
            of dots that are alternatly on off on off, etc.  The
            result is that sometimes dots that are supposed to be
            white are printed black.  This means that as many as
            6 of the upper 16 gray shades come out as pure black on
            some laserprinters.

-------------------- NEW AS OF 10-10-88 ----------------------------

Default object

   The right mouse button on the OBJ tool will bring up a default object
   requester.  Use the to set things like default density, rule thickness,
   hp dpi, etc.

Graphics Editor
   The graphics editor now works with 16 gray scales and seems to
   have stropped crasing

Print Requester
   There is new option in the print requester called "Strip Printing."  When
   this option is selected, preferences prints will print in strips.
   The result is that less chip RAM is needed, however, prints may
   take longer.



Plans:

   On postscript printers, the density obj option will effect all objects,
   not just blocks.


<--- BUGS ---->

The shadow option and outline page are not working correctly.

