
Dec 11, 1988


The following is a discussion of some of the features in City Desk 2.0.

Laser Printer Module
--------------------

A new program is now included with City Desk for HP LaserJet and Postscript
owners.  With this Utility You can:

1. Download softfonts to a laserjet
2. Erase softfonts in a laserjet
3. Reset a LaserJet
4. Print A test Page
5. Generate .hp files from a softfont
6. Generate .ps files for PostScript Fonts

Autohyphenation
---------------

The Auto hyphenation function is now functional.  You can toggle it on or
off in the "flow options" requester.  To find this requester click the right
mouse button over the reflow tool in the tool box.  The autohyphenation flag
is saved with your "auto prefs."  Be sure an save an autoprefs file after
turning on autohyphenation if you wish it to be active when you first run
City Desk.  Whenever you turn on auto hyphenation, City Desk uses an
additional 80K of RAM for hyphenation tables.  This RAM is not used when you
have hyphenation turned off.

Use the command [autothresh x], where x is a unit of distance, to tell city
desk how often to try and hyphenate a line.  autothresh sets the maximum
allowable amount of white space before hyphenation is tried.  Currently
the default is .5 inches.  Examples:
[autothresh .2"]
[autothresh 18pt]
[autothresh .1"+.3cm]

HP LaserJet Support
-------------------

HP laserjet owners can now have city desk automaticly download a set of soft
fonts.  This is done by createing an "autofonts" file (see example autofonts
file on this disk.)  If City Desk finds an autofonts file in its current
directory, it will download the indicated fonts to your laserjet.

Example "autofonts" file:

;
; this file has the same format as a font "list" used by the City Desk
; Laser Utility to download a list of soft fonts.
; the semicolon indicates a comment
;
; Valid commands:
;R               (reset printer, erase all fonts)
;D <file> <id>   (download font <file> and assign it id <id>)
;
; Now reset printer & download three softfonts from the current directory
;
R
D trp10 1
D trp10b 2
D trp12 3


Assign Fonts
------------

There is a new menu option under "preferences" that allows you to re-assign
'font:'  This should be used with care.  Once you change font: city desk can
not access any font information in the previous font directroy.  font: is
the path to your screen "amiga" fonts.  This has nothing to do with laser
fonts.

Percent Black
------------

The Perfect Black option in the object options requester now allows you to
add background screening on any object.  Screens can now be zero percent,
allowing you to put a white box on top of a gray screen.  The Perfect Black
is also adjustable in 5 percent increments.

Printing
--------

Currently when you print with PostScript, output is sent to the ser: device
which is the serial port.  With LaserJet selected, output is sent to either
ser: or par: depending on your amiga preferences selection.  The Amiga
preference HP driver is not used, and doesn't even need to be on your disk.
However, your selection of parallel or serial is used. You can
easily change these choices by selecting "print to file" in the print
requester. When the file requester appears, enter one of the folowing
in the file string gadget:

par:           (parallel port)
ser:           (serial port, set baud rate etc in amiga preferences)
aux:           (alternate unbuffered serial. WB 1.3 only)

Copy Page
---------

When you copy pages (either with the cut/copy/paste functions or by having
a default page copied) object links are not preserved.  That
is objects linked together on the page being copied from will not be linked
on the page being copied to.

Loading Color Pictures
----------------------

When loading graphics, color pictures are converted to gray scales.
Pictures that are B&W or are exacly 16 gray scales (for example, digitized
images) need no conversion and load quickly. When drawing B&W pictures,
be sure and use just ONE bit plane.  If you draw a b&W picture in dpaint
with your palette set to 32 colors, City Desk will attempt to convert the
picture to 16 gray scales on load.  Make sure you draw b&w pictures with
your palette set to two colors.

Color pictures (not HAM) are converted to gray scales when loaded.
Before this happens you will be presented with a requester
that gives the following options:

   Saturate       This increates both brightness and contrast
   OverSaturate   This increates brightness and contrast even more
   NoWhite        This causes light gray to be used instead of white.
                  This sometimes looks better on laser printers.

Each of the above options changes the picture slightly during conversion.
If you just click the close box, the picture will be coverted to gray scales
without applying any of the above enhancments.  Whether or not an option is
needed can usually be found by experimentation.

In some case better conversion results may be achieved by using dpaint or
butcher to convert the picture to 16 gray scales before loading into city
desk.  This is because color to grayscale conversion is very complicated and
entrie programs can be written the specialise in that one fuction.  City
Desk incorperates the most poplular methods of conversion, but not always
the best.

