


Guidelines for SunRize Telemarketing


This manual is designed to impart the basics of simple telemarketing for SunRize Industries.  Such telemarketing is aimed only at dealers of our products.  The purpose is to remind those dealers who have heard of SunRize about our products, educate those who haven't, and take orders (or reorders) of our products.


The Database

SunRize keeps records of all dealers known to us on a computer database program.  A major responsibility of the telemarketter will be maintenence of this list.


The Spiel

The telemarketter's workday consists mainly of talking to people.  For that reason it helps to be friendly and courteous.  Beware sounding pushy, tired, or unhelpful.  What follows is a step-by-step method for contacting dealers and taking orders.


1. Get set.

Make sure you have everything you will need b‚e‚f‚o‚r‚e‚ you call.  Your dealer list, price lists, product information, order forms, general information forms, and this manual are all necessary.

2. Call the number.

3. When someone answers, ask for the purchasing agent.

If the dealer list names a person, ask for that person first.  If 
the person is no longer there or is out, ask for anyone i‚n‚ ‚p‚u‚c‚h‚a‚s‚i‚n‚g‚.‚

4. When you reach a purchasing agent.

Say something like "Good day.  This is Joe Blow with SunRize Industries.  We make hardware and software for the Amiga computer.  Have you recieved any of our mailings?  Have you seen our products advertised?"

If the person answers "yes" to either question, ask if he or she would like more information or has specific questions.  If, instead, the person answers "no",  quickly state a list of our products, and mention the most recent magazines our adds have appeared in.

5. If things don't go well.

If the person states that he or she has no interest in buying from you, ask if their mind may change at a later date, then ask if you may call them back then.  If the call is completely fruitless (the person says "no" to everything, the store no longer carries Amiga products, etc.), thank the person for their time, say goodbye, and hang up.  Only if the store definitely does not carry Amiga products or it is part of a chain and does not handle puchasing for that chain should you delete that store from your list.

6. If things do go well.

If the person wants more information, say something like "That's a tricky question.  Could I transfer you to one of our tech staff(Thom or Anthony)?  He could answer your questions more easily."  The tech should answer questions and then immediately refer the person back to you for ordering.

7. Taking the order.

If the person is satisfied with his or her knowledge and has not asked for an order, do not be afraid to say something like "Would you like to place an order?".  If they say "no", ask if you could call back at a later time, thank them, and hang up.

If they place an order, they will almost always want pricing information first.  Their decision about ordering will be effected by the prices (for better or worse).  Many of them will want to haggle, or will gripe about the discounts, no matter how good they are.  Be polite but firm.  If they insist on a better price for volume (mail-order houses do this all the time), put them on hold and speak with Anthony.  His decision will be final.

Almost all orders are C.O.D.  Almost all stores will simply assume this to be the case, and won't even discuss it.  For every order, be c‚e‚r‚t‚a‚i‚n‚ to get a Purchase Order Number.  This number should be written on the invoice.  Many agents will simply use the day's date as the P.O.N., and a few don't use them at all. Dates are acceptable, but use the agent's own name as the number if you can't get one.

After the order is taken, thank them and hang up.


General Notes

Never miss a chance to update the dealer list.  Whether or not an order is taken, ask to check if the address is correct and if the purchasing agent's name is correct.  Write down the date you called them, whether you need to call them back, what was the person like, etc.  Write on the dealer list printout itself (you can always get a new one printed when yours becomes too cluttered).

Many people will be grumpy, and a few will be downright mean.  Remember that your politeness will be remembered and appreciated by even the most vile-tempered people.  Treat each agent as a friend, and in time they will be.

Double-check all of your information before you hang up.  Call backs are embarrassing and cost money.

If all else fails, ask if the agent would like an information packet sent to him or her.

If you don't know, ask one of your co-workers!  Our company is in a very technical field, and no one expects you to know everything.

Get on an Amiga and update the computer list from your list every morning.  This will insure that the master list is as up-to-date as possible.



A typical call

The following is a made-up but typical call to a fictitious store called "Commode-Door Computers".

RING!!!

Salesperson: Hello, C.D. Computers!

Joe Blow: May I speak with Jim, please?

Saleperson: Jim ain't with us any longer.  Ya wanna speak to purchasing?

Joe: Yes, please.

Salesperson: That'd be Marsha.  She's at the other office.  Ya want the number?

Joe: Yes, please.

Salesperson:Its  123-456-7890.  Got that?

Joe: Yes, thank you.

Salesperson:You're welcome. G'bye!

Joe:Goodbye.

Click.

Ring!!!!

Salesperson: Hello, C.D. Computers!

Joe: Is Marsha there, please?

Salesperson: Certainly.  May I say who's calling? 

Joe: Joe Blow with Sunrize Industries.

Salesperson: SunRize!?! Hey, you guys make great stuff!  Hold on while I get Marsha.

beep!

(Incredibly stupid muzak; beware its stupifying effects)

beep!

Marsha: Hello, this is Marsha.

Joe: This is Joe Blow from SunRize Industries.  We make hardware and software for the Amiga computer.  Have you seen some of the mailings we've sent you?

Marsha: Well, you may have sent them, but we get so much here I'm 
lucky just to find my desk.  What products do you have?

Joe: We are producing Perfect Vision, a video digitizer, Studio Magic, which is a sound effects processing program, we make Perfect Sound, the stereo sound digitizer, and... 

Marsha: I remember now!  I saw your ad in the last Amazing Computing.  I'd like to know more about Perfect Vision.  Can it do HAM pictures and still be kosher?

Joe: Could I get one of our technical support guys on the line for you?  They could answer that question better than I.

Marsha: Sure.

Joe: Okay. Hold on, please.

Click!

Joe:(yelling across the office) Thom, could you answer some questions about Perfect Vision on line 1?

Thom: Sure thing!

Click!

Thom: Hello, mumble, mumble.  Mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble. Mumble, technical, mumble, technical, mumble, mumble, mumble, technical, technical, technical, mumble, mumble, technical,  mumble, mumble, mumble, technical, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, technical, technical, technical.  Mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, mumble, technical, mumble, technical, mumble, mumble.  Technical, mumble, mumble, mumble.  Okay, let me get Joe 
for you.  Hold on.

Click!

Thom: Back to you, Joe.

Joe: Thanks, thom.

Click!

Joe: This is Joe.

Marsha: Let me get three of those Perfect Visions.  What's the dealer price on that?

Joe: Well, if you order 1-3, it's 33% off, but if you order 4 or more, we'll give you 38% off.

Marsha:Um... In that case, ship me four.

Joe: Great.  Could I have a P.O. number for that?

Marsha: Let's see here..(rustle,rustle).. Okay, it's 14592.  Got that?

Joe: 1-4-5-9-2.  All right.  Could I check your address, please?

Marsha: Sure.  It's  345 Alda way,  Very, Ill. 11011.

Joe: That's what I have.  Also, how would you like this shipped? 

Marsha: Oh, UPS ground will do.

Joe: I'll have that shipped out right away.  Thank you very much, 
Marsha.

Marsha: Thank you, Joe.  Goodbye.

Joe: Goodbye.

Click!



    