
The files you recieved with "Perfect Sound" should include the following:

PSound
PSound.info
ps.title
demo1
demo2
demo3
readme  (this file)

These files may be in two archives:

PSound.arc (PSound,PSound.info,readme)
PSdemo.arc (ps.title,demo1,demo2,demo3,readme)

Perfect Sound is Copyrighted 1986 by Anthony J. Wood. Permission is
given to distribute copies of Perfect Sound for NON COMMERCIAL use
provided the following conditions are met:

1. All of the above listed files are included.
2. None of the files are altered in any way.

For Perfect Sound to load the title screen and the demos you will need to
create a subdirectory "sounds" with the makedir command. Put
demo1 - demo3 into this subdirectory.  These demos are digitized sounds
in IFF 8SVX format.

In the parent directory put "Perfect Sound", "Perfect Sound.info",
and "ps.title".  Now, when you execute Perfect Sound, the title screen
and demos will load if the "ps.title" can be found in the current
directory. If you get tired of waiting for the demos to load, rename or
delete them. Also, if the title screen is renamed or deleted, Perfect Sound
will not even attempt to load the demo sounds.


The Perfect Sound editor can be used as it is, to edit digitized sounds,
or can be used with the Perfect Sound Stereo Digitizer to record and
edit your own sounds.  The Perfect Sound digitizer costs $79.95, and is
available from:

SunRize Industries
PO Box 1453
College Station, TX 77841
(409) 845-1311

We take MasterCard/Visa or checks. For your money you get: a digitizer
that really does record in stereo (doesn't just imply it...), the
latest version of the "Perfect Sound" software, a typeset manual, and
a library of pre-recorded sounds (clapping, airplanes, yells,
gun shots, etc...)


Also, this program is distributed in the spirit of "ShareWare." If you
use this program and like it, a suggested contribution of $20 would
be appreciated.  If you do send in your $20, we will send you a
typeset manual, the latest version of the program, and a
complimentary copy of "The Captain's Greatest Hits, Vol I."
(a disk full of digitized sounds, useful with
"Deluxe Video" and other IFF compatible programs.)

We will be happy to take your payment by phone
if you have a credit card.

If you have any comments or suggestions, please contact us at 
the above address.


The following products are also available from SunRize Industries:

"The Captain's Greatest Hits"    $19.95
   A disk full of digitized sound effects, and complimentary copy of
   the Perfect Sound software.

"The Captain's Gallery"          $19.95
   A disk full of clip art. Includes medium and low resolution artwork
   divided into over fifty themes (christmas, cars, halloween, cities,
   etc.) Very well drawn and easily transferable to your own paintings.

"The Deluxe Companion"           $29.95
   Both of the above disks in one package.

