


MAKING AN IFF INSTRUMENT

  This file will explain in detail how to create an IFF
instrument that is in tune and sounds good. 

  step 1. Prepare to digitize a sound.
Hook up your audio source to your digitizer.  You only need to
hook up one channel, since IFF instruments are not stereo.  Load
the Perfect Sound program, and monitor the input line you are
using.  Now, set up your audio source, and adjust the volume
until you get the best possible sound.  If you have one, hook
your graphic equalizer or filter box in between the audio source
and the digitizer. Adjust it to cut out or limit frequencies
above 4000 hertz.  Higher frequencies will create unwanted noise
(called "aliasing") at this record speed.

  step 2. set digitizing rate and pitch.
Pick "Adjust Record Rate" from the menu, and set the record rate
to 8363 (eighty-three hundred and sixty-three).  You probably
won't get the slider to give you this particular number, so click
on the number box and edit the number directly.
  To be in tune, the sample you digitize must match the pitch of
middle C.  There are many ways to change the sample pitch to do
this.  For instance, on a synthesizer, simply press the C key
that is nearest to the middle of the keyboard.  Middle C is the
standard for all Amiga instruments.  Don't bother with this step
if you are digitizing a percussion sound that consists mostly of
white noise.

  step 3. digitize.
Double check your connections, and then digitize your sound.
Edit it until you have the sound you want.  Remember that some
music programs have limits on how big their instruments can be.
Sonix cannot use an instrument bigger than about 31000 bytes, while
DMCS is limited to about 39k bytes.

  step 4. create octaves.
Click on your sample to highlight it.  Now use the menu option 
Sample * 2".  Your new sample name should indicate that this
sample is one octave higher than the base sample(i.e."flute0.5").
Click on the base sample again and use the menu option "Sample /
2" to get another sample that is one octave lower than your base
sample.  These three samples will be your new three-octave
instrument.  By continuing to multiply or divide, you can create
up to a five-octave instrument.  You can also choose to make an
instrument with only 1,2,3, or 4 octaves.  If you do not make a
5-octave instrument, your music program will stretch the lowest
sample to reach a really low note, which can sometimes distort
the sound unacceptably.  Also, the samples need not all be the
same.  Many drum instruments are composed of 5 different
samples.  The only real stipulations are that each sample must
be exactly twice the length of the next higher one, and all
samples must be of an even length.

  step 5. create instrument.
Click on the highest pitched sample of the octaves you have made
for your instrument.  Move the slider marked "start" to the
place you want your sustain to start.  The"start" marker marks a
place in your instrument that will loop through to the end
continuously while the note lasts.  If you want an instrument
that has no sustain (i.e. a percussion sound) simply move the
"start" slider all the way to the right.  Now choose the menu
option "Make IFF Instrument".  If all goes well, you will be
asked for "SamplesPerHighCycle".  This basicly adjusts your
octave.  The default, eight, will give you just what you have
made.  A lower number will drop the octave of all of your
samples, while a higher number will raise the octave. Note that
the number must be a multiple of 2 (2,4,8,16,32,etc.). Also,
Perfect Sound will not reflect the octave change.

  step 6. save instrument
A completed instrument will be shown just like a sample in the 
list. However, if you play it, you will hear all of the octaves,
one after another.  To play the individual octaves, press the
F1-F5 keys. Click the instrument to highlight it, and then save
it as IFF. Congratulations!  You have made an IFF instrument.


    Now we will go through the process step by step to create an
actual instrument.  On your disk is a sample called "beep1".
This is a raw sample that has been already set to middle C at a
playback rate of 8363.
    Run Perfect Sound.  Load "beep1". Play it once, to hear how
it sounds.  Now select the menu option "Sample*2". When it asks
for the name of the new sample, type "beep0.5".  Now, click on
"beep" again to highlight it.  Pick the menu option "Sample/2".
 Call it "beep2".  Now click on "beep0.5" to highlight it.  Move
the "start" pointer all the way to the right; we don't want a
sustain point.
    Choose the menu option "Make IFF Instrument". When it asks
for the samples per high cycle, just click the "ok" button.
Name this new voice "beepinst".
    Now load the "beep" instrument off the disk.  "Beep"
and your "beepinst" instrument should sound exactly alike.


||
