
BACKGROUND

     In the late 1990's, the global situation was much as it was today.
However, the world had become much more polarized along capitalist/communist
lines.
     Into this situation an alien spacecraft crash-landed in France,
one of the last bastions of the U.N.  The only two survivors were not very
talkative, tearing apart 92 police officers before others managed to kill
them, an then only through complete dismemberment.
     Though at first zeno-zoologists found it hard to believe such vicious
killing machines could be the builders of the small craft, further study
made it clear the the ship was an advance scout for a huge armada of
marauding beings with a decidedly destructive mind-set.  Futher examinations
of the ship's recording devices showed that the armada was traveling
at sub-light velocities directly toward Earth, and was just over 1,000
light-years away.
     At this time the U.N. assembly was blessed by a political genius,
Peter Druure.  Instead of asking that all nations stand together, he
convinced the super-powers that nothing could stop the aliens, and therefore
work should begin on generation ships to carry their respective populations
away to preserve each power's own people (and ideologies).  His finagling
worked; within 15 years almost all of earth's population was gone.  The
communist block launched 14 huge ships to spinward, while the Americans and
Japanese left anti-spinward in no less than 2,300 smaller ships.  Curiously
enough, Druure and his 2,341,000 member following elected to stay behind,
along with several militant religious factions.


STORY SYNOPSIS

     Anna Bernaal, a pop singer (tell me you didn't see that coming!) and
ace fighter pilot, is doing a concert (or that!) on board the base starship
U.C.P. Tanstaafl.  Suddenly, the hated Commos attack.  Anna heads for the
fighter bay as her manager pleads with her not to risk her life so
foolishly.
     Meisha Andrin, in a five-man Vlott class fighter, prepares his
equipment as the first wave begins conflict with the dreaded Capitaals.
Miesha, a 10th-class prolet and wizard at electronics and engineering, hopes
to interface the communication channels of the two enemies so that he can be
the first to look at the hideous, horible visage of a real, live Capitaal.
Miesha hopes that they are every bit as slimy as legend says they are.
     The battle rages with lots of great explosions before Meisha can
decipher the enemy code, but he finally does, and throws some very
meaningfull switches.
     Anna is chasing her 7th enemy fighter and giving orders to her wing
when her auxiliary screen sizzles and clears revealing a handsome young man
speaking excited gibberish.  Anna realizes that this is the enemy they are
fighting; not the fang-faces of myth, but fellow men.  Before she can decide
what to do, Miesha's ship is hit and the transmission stops.  Correctly
deducing which ship sent the signal, she decides to follow it down as it
plunges toward a small blue green planet near the conflict.
     Meisha, stunned by the beutiful young woman on his screen, is knocked
out by the blast, but manages to wake up in time to manhandle the ship safely
(did we mention he was a great flier too?) to the ground.  He steps past his
mangled comrades, all dead from the enemy blast, and climbs to the ground in
time to see a Capitaal fighter swoop overhead and then land on a nearby
hill.
     Anna gets out and approaches Miesha with her hand-laser drawn.  They
both start talking excitedly but give up as they realise that niether can be
understood.  Anna cautiously enters the Commo fighter, keeping Miesha
covered with her gun, only to stumble back out; she has seen the mangled
bodies, and reacts by breaking down and sobbing.  Meisha, disgusted by this
display, brushes past unopposed and collects survival gear from the wreck.
     Miesha returns with, omong other things, an anchient Russian/English
dictionary.  Struggling, they manage to communicate that niether ship will
make it offplanet, since Anna's is a simple fighter and the Vlott is ruined.
Anna says that she saw signs of civilization to the East, and off they go.

     They journey for 10 days, and during that time Miesha learns English
amazingly quickly.  Their relationship changes from overt hostility to
guarded friendship. During the 10th night, thier camp is attacked by howling
humans spouting gibberish.  Miesha is immediatly taken captive, but Anna
kicks a few in the nuts before she is taken.  They are taken north to a
small, rundown fort complete with palisade.  The savages, which are
decendants of a Klu Klux Klan radical splinter group (and, mind you, that's
pretty radical) tie them up in preperation for sacrifice to the idol
"Mach'iga", a rusty M-60 on a mud-brick altar.

     There they meet Robbi, a young hunter who is also a sacrifice.  Anna
can barly understand him, but he communicates that he expects his tribe to
save him.  Sure enough, just before they are sheduled to be sacrificed,
combat at the palisade allows them the needed diversion to escape.
Later they join up with Bobbi's tribe, the Dallees. Their head honcho,
Jimmi, realises that Anna and Miesha are offworlders, and shows them a map
of old America.  He tells them in Washington, D.C. there exists the
desendants of Druure and his followers.  He urges them to go there to get
the full scoop on things.  Anna protests that her ship can't even make it
that far.  Miesha mysteriously asks for 500 liters of water (and the men to
carry it).  The request is granted, and off they go, back to the ships.


   

