
Memory Management

One of the most commonly asked technical questions is "Why won't PS recognize and use my expansion memory?".

PS [it]does[p] recognize your extra memory. The confusing thing is the [it]Memory for recording: [p]indicator. With a 1-Megabyte machine (512K expansion) the initial reading here is just over 300K, which doesn't seem right. Let's figure this out.

The Amiga is a multi-tasking machine, which means that there's always a master program (called the EXEC) sitting in the background, parceling out memory to whichever program asks for it. These chunks of memory, or [it]blocks[p], cannot be used by any other program than the program which requested the block. Also, the block has to be given back to the EXEC by the program before the EXEC can re-assign it.

Now, the operating system is a program. The Workbench is another. Any CLI command you use is yet another whole program. With all of these programs requesting and relinquishing all different sizes of memory blocks, is it any wonder that memory can get split up into smaller and smaller chunks, or [it]fragmented[p]?

PS needs an un-fragmented block of memory for each sound it records or loads from disk. This is why your initial sound has only 300K to work with. 300K is not [it]all [p]of the memory available; it is simply the [it]biggest available [p]block. When you have used this block, look again at the [it]Memory for recording [p]indicator. It should be displaying the next-largest block of free memory, which is still pretty big.

Equalizer Use

Many PS owners have asked about the best way to get good digitized sounds from a variety of sources. The answer is a home stereo equalizer.

Equalizers come in various shapes and sizes, but they all are pretty much the same electronically. Their function is to apply individual volume controls to different frequencies of the sound being passed through. Since the inputs and outputs of equalizers are almost universally line-level (around 5 volts), the output of your equalizer should be connected directly to the PS. This also means that if you're using a microphone, you will need a pre-amplifier between the microphone and the equalizer.

PS digitizes at a rate you specify; the rate you want depends on what you use the sound for. If you are making an IFF instrument (for use with a music program), you want the IFF instrument standard speed, xxxx. If you are making a sound for a game, you have much more freedom. Remember, though, that a higher speed means more memory is used every second.

In basic digitizing theory, the maximum frequency a digitizer can accurately record is equal to half the record speed. Therefore, if you recorded a sound at 20,000 samples per second, the highest accurately recorded frequency would be 10 kilohertz. Any frequencies present which are higher than this limit cannot be contained by the sample, and so cause unwanted "noise" in your sample.

Therefore, the you should use an equalizer to selectively cut out all or most frequencies above half of your chosen digitizing rate.

For instance, the equalizer I use has seven band controls; 60H, 150H, 400H, 1K, 2.4K, 6K, and 15K. When digitizing a sound at 15,000 samples per second, I move the 15K slider down all the way and move the others all the way up. This cuts out most of the high frequency noise.

Experimentation is the best way to great sound. Try different settings for all of your equalizer controls. Different sounds may require different settings.

